We made it we made it through the setup, and now that we're here, we have our development tools set
up, we're basically ready to hit the ground running.
Now, that being said, I just wanted to do a quick roundup of all the things that we've learned so
far.
During building focus time, we were heavily involved with the client and the snack, and we really
focused on creating and building an application that took you minimal time and had maximum output,
the focus time of being a timer that that basically helps you focus.
It was so easy to build.
And then through the setup, we saw the ability for us to take that app and run it on our own computer.
And one of the cruxes of that setup was the Expo Seelie.
Now, you may be wondering, OK, I understand what snackers snack was, the web interface that we used
in the browser and the client.
The client is what we put on our phone.
And then when we scan the QR code, we got everything we needed.
And then during the setup, I saw you use this Seelie and I set it up with you and we kind of went through
the motions.
But what is it?
Well, the Expo Seelie is a command line environment.
Now, a command line environment basically means that when we go into our terminal interface here,
this funny little screen that that looks like it's the matrix.
What we're seeing here, the terminal is basically an interface that we use to communicate with our
computer through text on windows.
It's different than on Mac and on Mac.
It's different than on Linux.
But they all have similarities to each other and they all work a bit differently.
And we went through the motions of using them to set up our environment.
Now, with that said, the command line environment for Expo is the tool that is used here in order
for us to be able to talk to Expo.
So Expo needs a bulk of tooling in order to set up everything and put everything in the right place.
And if we hit, learn more.
What we're going to see here is that when we go to learn more, the Expo KELLYE is the main interface
between the developer and the expo tools.
So remember how we built the snack and everything happened in the browser while we took those tools
that happened in the browser and we put them on our own computer and we use explicitly for creating
new projects, developing our app, publishing our app and releasing them over the air and potentially
building binaries and releasing them to these significant stores, the App Store or the Google Play
store.
So this this one tool has all of this functionality and we have to do some setup to get it there.
But it was worth it.
And it also is able to manage Apple credentials and Google store.
So these two points are heavily involved with releasing an app to the App Store, which will get you
down the line.
We're not really concerned with it right now.
What we want to focus on is the first three points, creating new projects, developing our app, running
the project and publishing it so that we can use it anywhere without distributing it publicly.
OK, so we went through the process of installing Expo Cloud globally.
So now it says, check the version, check the version to determine the version we're currently working
on.
So let's do that.
If we go into our visual studio code and we hit the little terminal tab here and we say new terminal,
what we'll see here is that if we clear it out, don't worry about the warnings that I get.
If we type in exposed space, that version and we hit enter, we'll see.
We're running four point zero point fifty.
Now, how do we know if this is the most recent version or not?
Well, if we go over to the exposed CLI on NPM and PMG dot com packages especially, you can see that
the most recent version is four point zero point fifteen.
Now, you may be running a newer version and that is completely fine.
It's always good to get the newer and better versions because they come with increased updates, security
and performance.
They're just overall better for you to always have the newer expo.
OK, so now we know that expo runs in the terminal and we know that it has a bunch of commands.
The commands are documented on this page, so if you ever need to go look up a command that you can
do it XPO, you can see here they document what each and every command does.
You have login, XPO, log out, expl, register.
You can do it all through the expert interface.
And so you have also have xpo, who am I.
So let's try that out.
If I go back into Visual Studio Code and I type XPO, who am I, well then it's going to say I'm logged
in as maby.
So that is my XPO account and if you want to login you can type XML log in and that will allow you to
log in.
Now it's going to say you're already logged in as mobility.
You want to log in as a new user.
I'm going to say no, but you can go through the login process here.
Just be aware that if you fill in your password and you don't see the characters pop up, that's completely
normal.
Just keep filling in your password and then hit enter.
All right, so we know that this XPO command line interface works in this way and we can use it to do
command line things.
So what do we want to do now?
Well, what we want to do is we want to create a repository.
I'm just scrolling through this so that you can see all of the different commands that go into it.
Right.
This is the Expo commands.
Now, let's go look at how we can use it to create a new project while getting started on the process
to make a new project use expo in its path.
All right.
So expo in it.
Interesting.
So how do we know what path we're on?
Well, if we go into visual studio code will and we type else, for instance, we can see that on my
Mac.
We're in a specific folder.
Now, it may differ based on where you are, on what system you are, but what I want you to do is I
don't want you to use this interface.
What I want you to do is I want you to go ahead and I want you to create a folder on your desktop,
whether it be.
Your desktop on your Windows, your Mac or your Linux, and I want you to call that folder projects.
And so we're going to keep it on our desktop for now, well, we can move it to documents later on.
And so what I want you to do, a visual studio code is I want you to open that folder.
So we're going to go over to our desktop and we're going to open projects.
And once we open that, when we open up our terminal.
Now, what it's going to do for us is it's going to start off.
In the projects folder.
OK, so we now know that we are in our projects folder, right?
And there's nothing in it.
So now we're going to do XPO in it, meals to go.
And this is going to.
Pull up, expl, and it's going to say, hey, we're going to set up a project for you.
Now, this is way different than doing it in the snack, for instance.
Right.
What we're trying to do here is we're trying to set up our environment.
So let's go do that in the next video.